// THIS FILE IS THE GENERAL DESIGN DOCUMENT FOR THE INCREMENTAL SPACE-IDLER //
	// "ORION." CREATED BY LAYNA STAMBAUGH ON 4.11.23 //

Logline :
	Incremental idler that follows and expands upon games like "A Dark
		Room," "Crank Game," and "NGU Idle." Control an ever-expanding
		horde of robots dedicated to finishing a Dyson Sphere orbiting
		the blue supergiant star Alnilam. Research technology to 
		facilitate construction, send out voyager bots to uncover 
		ancient materials and scout celestial bodies for new 
		resources, as well as fight an ancient evil as it tries 
		to wipe out the last reminders of humanity in the galaxy.

Design Pillars :
	Atmospheric & Lonely :
		Much like "Crank Game," the environment in Orion is designed
			to make the player feel melancholic and lonely, but in
			a way that brings more intrigue than despair. The 
			universe in Orion is long dead, and the quiet, desolate 
			soundscape and mournful style of the narration do
			their best to represent that. 

		Although the universe is dead, however, it does not feel 
			"empty." The player's scouting and surveying bots
			will frequently find remmants of human technology, such
			as old research stations, energy experiments, and
			lost or mostly destroyed battle formations. When such
			items are found, they can be one of two core types:
			"Simple" or "Complex." Simple items give the player
			some type of boost, but not much else. Complex items
			are unique, and require the player to send a dedicated
			exploration force to uncover their secrets. These
			items usually have some narrative aspect, and are
			not procedurally generated. They can activate enemy
			formations, reveal new or special resources,  and
			generally the discovery of one marks a watershed
			moment in a playthrough.

	3X Gameplay :
		From the start of the game, the player is given one directive;
			"Finish the Dyson Sphere." However, dyson spheres are
			incredibly expensive economic projects, and the 
			creation of one implicitly demands many millions of
			tons of resources and many hours of hard labor.

		To meet this near-impossible demand for resources and labor,
			the player is incentivized to explore, expand, and
			exploit their neighboring surroundings. Expanding
			over time from the home system of Alnilam to many
			dozens over the course of the game. The player must
			exploit resources to create the tools and resources
			they need to improve their productivity, and then
			use that additional productivity to perform research,
			create military or exploratory divisions, and so on.

	The Sphere and the Star-Scions :
		The Dyson Sphere and the hive-mind like spaceborne monsters
			known only as Star-Scions both serve the same
			overarching purpose; to motivate the player to advance
			through the game. The Dyson Sphere does this by 
			providing the player energy as it is upgraded, forming
			a positive feedback loop where the player invests
			resources into the Dyson Sphere, and the sphere in
			turn expands the baseline of their economy. Energy
			cannot be gathered in any other way, and in order
			for the player to sustainably expand into other
			systems, they need to use infrastructrue that connects
			the dyson sphere to designated recharge stations
			in systems they expand to, forming, in essence, an
			interstellar power network.

		The Star-Scions, on the other hand, give the player motivation
			to invest into military industry and military
			technology. They will frequently attack unprotected
			resource routes, are occasionally stationed in star
			systems that the player has had yet to explore, and
			can even organize raids against unprotected systems,
			or systems with special attributes that make them
			desirable to the Star-Scions.
		
		In order to combat this threat, the player must research and 
			develop battle-bots. However, the strength of the 
			Star-Scion hordes only increases as the hive mind 
			grows more aware and concerned of the player's 
			presence. This creates an infinite arm race between 
			the forces and defences the player puts into
			place and the never-ending hordes of monsters.

Gameplay Loop :
	Be assigned an objective, such as acquiring a certain amount of 
		resources or exploring a certain point in space.

	Exploit new or more resources in known and available space, and/or 
		research new technologies using currently avaialble resources.

	Utilize the new resources and research as a means to accomplish the 
		objective, thereby being given a reward. This reward can be 
		either furthering the narrative or granting the player some 
		new capability that changes how they play the game at some 
		core level.

	Repeat the loop until all narrative elements and novel gameplay 
		additions have been acquired. Note that the last objective in 
		this loop would be to finish the construction of the Dyson 
		Sphere. After the Dyson Sphere is created, the player will be 
		given a neat narrative blurb, and then they will be able
		to continue playing in "free mode," although their
		production and research capabilities will be greatly
		enhanced due to the Dyson Sphere.

Features :
	Combat :
		Combat is simple and requires minimal player input; the core
			of the experience is in creating and maintaining
			the units that engage in combat in the first place.
			When a unit is in close enough range to another unit,
			it begins to fire attacks. The range of a unit is
			unique, and a unit with a high enough range may 
			rain fire down upon an enemy without having to
			worry about repercussions. Units only have a basic
			health value, and this value decreases by a set
			amount whenever it is hit by an enemy projectile. 

		Both the player and the Star-Scions have access to a number
			of different units. For the player, these units are
			accessed by spending different types and amounts of
			resources. They have different abilities and attributes,
			which changes their usefullness in any given situation.
			For the Star-Scions, the range of units they have
			access to depends on the threat level that the player
			has, and the type of mission that the formation
			of Star-Scions is embarking on. For example, a band
			of Star-Scions attacking a resource route will typically
			consist of small, lightly armed and armored units.
			However, an assault on a heavily defended world
			will consist of slower, more brutal units.

	Resource Exploitation and Resource Routes :
		Resource exploitation can be done in two separate ways:
			orbital mining stations and planetary facilities.
			The way to construct both of these entities are
			described separately in their own sections. After
			the resources are mined, however, they need to be
			transported to the dyson sphere via a "resource route."

		These routes are not constructible objects, but rather 
			concepts and indicators that show how bots transfer
			materials from their exploitation areas to the 
			dyson sphere. They are crucially important, however,
			for two separate reasons. Firstly, if the player
			constructs infrasturcture to speed up bot movement
			along these resource routes, they will reduce the
			amount of time (and thus the amount of resources)
			spent getting that material to its final destination.
			This, essentially, means that connecting a material
			to the dyson sphere with infrastructure flat-out
			improves the productivity of that exploitation, 
			incentivizing the player to build an ever-expanding
			network of space-lanes and interconnected stations.
			The second indicator of their importance is that
			the Star-Scions will frequently attack unprotected
			resource routes. Star-Scion holdings in systems where
			the resource route moves through will also attack it.
			Therefore, it is imperative that the player is aware 
			of the existence and structure of their resource 
			routes, and that they make moves to protect them
			by assigning military patrol routes and/or building
			defense stations in particularly barren systems which
			the resource route passes through.

	Research :
		Research has two parts: military research and construction
			research. As the player is controlling a collection
			of robots, common research tropes like "cultural"
			or "society" research would be non-sensical. Instead,
			the research process focuses on granting the
			player gradually more powerful or efficient ways
			of destroying Star-Scion hordes, constructing stations,
			establishing planetary control, and improving the
			efficiency of resource route infrastructure.

		The actual method for allocating research is very similar
			to the system in the original Master of Orion game.
			The player has a general "research" fund, which
			they can split between a number of sections. Every
			game tick, each section gets its percentage of the
			total research fund, ammounting over time to equal
			or exceed the research target for that section.
			When the research target is reached, the player
			receives a new technology that fits thematically
			with that specific section of research. The
			sections of research are as follows:

			* Mobile Space Warfare
				This section specializes in researching new
				and better space combat ships. It can also
				lead to new types of combat ships. For
				example, in the start of the game the player
				only has access to the most rudimentary
				combat ship; the interceptor, but can
				eventually learn how to build escorts,
				cruisers, and dreadnoughts.

			* Static Space Warfare
				Static space warfare focuses on constructing
				more powerful defense stations that can
				protect trade routes or star systems. They
				Their upgraded versions will typically have
				larger range and more powerful or faster
				firing weaponry. Some reasearch options
				may even enable new, more specialized
				platforms, such as a faster firing station for
				eliminating small Star-Scions.

			* Ground Warfare
				Ground warfare focuses on creating more
				powerful bot warriors that can attack or
				hold planets. It can also give advances
				in constructing ground facilities like
				fortifications or sensor arrays.

			* Infrastructure and Power Distribution
				This section yields advances in consstructing
				more efficent space lanes for resource
				routes, more efficient and powerful energy
				distributors.

			* Mining and Construction
				This section yields advances in more efficient 
				research and mining stations. This is also the
				section that will allow the player to mine
				new, more advanced materials. Finally,
				this section can also yield better construction
				facilities and ground facilities that can
				increase the exploit yield or construction
				rate of planets.
	Star-Scions :
		The Star-Scions are an ancient amalgamation of evil. Whether
			it is by intellect or instinct is unknown, but they
			seem to have a knack for war and a hatred of all
			other lifeforms. They view the player and their
			bots as the remmants of the human lifeform, and
			thus an enemy to their existence. 

		The Star-Scions have several holdings in the star systems
			surrounding Alnilam. These holdings typically center
			around anomalies or resource caches, and the strength
			of the forces guarding the holding usually betray
			the value of the thing they are guarding. Star-Scion
			holdings will not attack player forces unless either
			force enters into the combat range of the other. Then,
			they will pursue the player forces until they leave
			the system or either force is destroyed.

		The Star-Scions can also raid resource routes. Which resource
			route they decide to raid is dependent on multiple
			factors; firstly, the overall value of the route
			(how many resources are moving through it at a
			given rate), how well it's protected (this value
			is determined by examining how many player ships
			are in the systems that the resource rate consists of,
			as well as defense stations and planetary facilities),
			and how long ago the resource route was last attacked,
			if it was at all.

		Finally, the Star-Scions can initiate attacks on player
			held systems. The forces with which they attack
			a system are far fiercer than the raiding forces that
			attack resource routes, or even the many holdings
			scattered across the stars. System attacks do not
			occur until a set amount of time after game start,
			and gradually increase in ferocity and frequency
			afterwards. The Star-Scions determine which system
			to attack in a similar way that they decide to
			attack resource routes. Note that they will never
			attack the player's home system of Alnilam, except
			for a special attack at the end of the game.




	Military Ships :
		Both forces have a number of ship archetypes. These
			archetypes will gradually grow more powerful in
			their respective ways over the course of the game,
			but their foundational purpose will remain the same.
			However, two things must be noted: while this entry
			describes the ships using their robot names, all of
			the data still applies fully for the equivalent
			unit on the Star-Scion side. Secondly, while 
			Star-Scions may act and be treated as ships, they
			are, in fact, discrete biological organisms.
			The archetypes are as follows;
				* Aircraft 
					Aircraft are light and numerous, 
					and are designed to pepper larger 
					ships, which they gain an attack bonus 
					against. However, they are lightly 
					armored and can be easily destroyed by 
					fast firing armor piercing rounds from 
					escort ships or anti-aircraft stations. 
					In terms of behavior, Aircraft
					will single out the biggest ship they
					are in combat range of and attack it.
				
				* Frigates
					Frigates are medium weight escort
					vessels. They typically guard larger 
					vessels or act as the leading force 
					for a small raiding party. They 
					specialize in destroying aircraft, 
					and will automatically target them 
					if they are available. However, their 
					fighting prowess against other ships 
					is not to be underestimated, and a 
					good number of frigates may mean the
					difference between victory and defeat.

				* Battleships
					Battleships are the ships of the
					line for any advanced naval force. They
					have high attack and defense, but
					are relatively slow and lack good
					anti-aircraft defenses. To make up for
					this, a battleship should never enter 
					into battle without an escort of at 
					least three escorts. 

				* Dreadnoughts
					The Dreadnoughts are the largest of
					all naval vessels. They have massive
					attack and defense capabilities, as
					well as extraordinary range, and
					can easily turn the tide of any battle
					if utilized appropriately. They also
					increase the fighting effectiveness
					of all nearby allies, meaning that
					a fleet with a dreadnought will fight
					better and last longer than one
					without. However, this bonus does
					not stack, and does not apply to
					other dreadnoughts. The dreadnoughts
					have only one major weakness: their
					immobility. They cannot move fast,
					and they can barely turn at all. 
					This means that a dreadnought detached
					from its fleet can be easy pickings
					for a force that would otherwise have
					been decimated by it. When a 
					dreadnought is destroyed, all of the
					units it was previously buffing are
					given a major temporary debuff to
					demonstrate the loss of leadership
					and morale. This can be useful
					information for a resourceful and
					mobile attacker...
	Anomalies :
		Strewn about the many stars in the galaxy are dormant
			structures and stations left by the once ascendant
			Human empire. While the historical and cultural
			significance of these ruins is lost upon the robots,
			the resources and ancient technologies housed in 
			these locales are not. However, many of them are
			guarded by the Star-Scions... why they are guarding
			these areas is unknown, as it seems illogical for
			a race designed to destroy to take so seriously
			the preservation of remmants of their enemy. But
			defeating them and claiming the rewards inside is
			critical to the advancement of the Dyson Sphere
			construction plan, as the manifold technologies and
			resources in the stations and facilities can give
			the robots powerful weapons, resource exploitation
			and construction methodologies, and (a very special
			anomaly) a warp-gate station that can instantly
			teleport forces from one point in space to another.
			(Note that the warp-gate stations are too energy
			intensive to handle the massive amounts of resource
			convoys that move through resource routes, meaning
			that it is only useful for military purposes.)	
		
		The strength of the Star-Scions guarding the anomaly is a
			loose indication of the strength of the anomaly
			being guarded.

	Dyson Sphere Construction and Energy Management :
		The Dyson Sphere is constructed over multiple phases.
			Each phase requires a new type of resource, and
			has a generally increased resource cost over the
			last phase. To construct the dyson sphere, the
			player must allocate resources to its construction.
			These resources go into their own pool, and then
			spent steadily over time to increase the 
			construction value. How quickly the construction
			value is increased is determined by how many
			construction bots are allocated to the sphere's
			construction. If there are no resources in the
			pool, then the construction bots idle and no
			progress is made.
			
		The Dyson Sphere generates energy. How much energy it
			generates depends on how constructed it is. Note
			that its energy generation does not discretely
			increase with each phase up, but instead increases
			gradual as more and more resources are allocated
			to it. All bots require energy for upkeep. Battle-bots
			like battleships or interceptors require higher
			energy upkeep, depending on the size of the unit.
			Stations also require energy. Energy is distributed
			to units via recharge stations, where units will
			recharge power if they go near enough it. Note
			that units will not automatically move to power
			recharge stations; they must manually be moved there
			or risk dying in the coldness of space. Energy
			is transmitted through specialized infrastructure
			(energy waveguides). All instances of energy
			waveguides start at the Dyson Sphere and connect
			to separate stations (which can only be powered
			by such a connection) and energy research stations.
			Note that bots will not recharge enrgy from being
			near energy waveguides, but will not lose energy
			either, making it possible for them to move through
			the lines and move to energy research stations.

		Finally, note that energy waveguides increase the
			"infrastructure" value of its position, meaning that
			resource routes are more likely to shape around or
			mutate to follow energy waveguide constructions.

	Building Construction :
		Buildings are constructed by designating its construction
			location, where a silhouette of the building is
			placed. Then, builder bots will take resources from
			the nearest possible warehouse (the Dyson Sphere
			acts a warehouse) and then bring them to that
			position. Then, they will spend a certain amount of
			time assigning those resources to the building,
			increasing its construction progress. Once construction
			progress has reached 100%, the building is active.
